## Perspective Questions: 
 
In “Big Data, New Epistemologies and Paradigm Shifts” by Rob Kitchin the author emphasizes the importance of measurement as a significant contributing factor for improved description and analysis of complex natural and/or social phenomena. How is the advent of big data serving to advance this revolution in measurement and subsequently? How is this revolution in measurement serving to elevate data science as an interdisciplinary field of study? How is the data deluge advancing a better understanding of human movement, behavior and relationships? How does data science contribute towards our improved understanding of human development as a complex and adapting social and economic system?
 
 
 
## My Responses: 
 
According to Kitchin, compared with massive data sets like national censuses which have been used for a long time, other than the feature of huge in volume, the characteristics of big data could be concluded as continuous, high in velocity, diverse in variety, exhaustive in scope, fine-grained in resolution and uniquely indexical in identification, relational in nature, scalable and flexible in its productions. Therefore, unlike the tightly controlled traditional massive data sets that require high costs, use sampling techniques with limited scope, temporality, and size, and meet difficulties of generating, processing, analyzing, and storing, big data becomes a highly effective and useful tool of measurement. Even though analyzing big data has met challenges that are too complex and difficult to be eliminated like abundance, timeliness and dynamism, messiness and uncertainty, high relationality, and the fact that much of what is generated has no specific question corresponded or a by-product of other activities, the challenges could have been solved by new technological development tools including artificial intelligence and expert systems that could produce machine learning, enabling automatic computation and the ability to detect patterns, build predictive models, and determine the best outcomes. Thus, with hundreds of various algorithms implemented to a dataset to optimize results or a composite model or explanation, big data leads to a revolutionary different approach which has the effect that traditionally used approach wherein the analyst selects an appropriate method based on their knowledge of technique and the data couldn’t achieve. “Big Data analytics enables an entirely new epistemological approach for making sense of the world; rather than testing a theory by analysing relevant data, new data analytics seek to gain insights ‘born from the data’” is the original statement by Kitchin. In this case, within this kind of capabilities leading to the far-reaching consequences to knowledge production, business conduction, and governance enaction, big data advanced the revolution in measurement to a different level. 
 
Big Data is thought to provide the possibility of a new research paradigm in the interdisciplinary field of study. Kuhn introduced a paradigm that could constitute an accepted way of interrogating the world and synthesizing knowledge common together in one discipline whenever possible: a new way of thinking emerges to constantly challenge every accepted theory and approach and demand the formulation of new ideas, because the dominant mode of science cannot explain particular question and phenomena. Take Darwin’s theory of evolution for instance: the theory not only challenged conceptual ideas about biological science, but also challenged the religious doctrine of creationism. However, compared with Kuhn, Gray proposed a fourth paradigm in science based on the advances in big data and the development of new analytical tools. 
 
Employing the epistemology method tends to focus on factual and quantified information that could be observed and measured in science rather than more intangible aspects of human life like beliefs and ideology. In the field of economics, political science, human geography, and sociology, positivistic approaches corresponding to data deluge are well employed, but in the area of humanities, the utilization is rare. The situation is more sophisticated in the area of social sciences and humanities given the diversity of their philosophical underpinnings. The perspectives from both positivistic scholars and post-positivist scholars in social sciences are reasonable: for positivistic scholars, big data provides significant number of opportunities to develop more complicated, larger-scaled, finer-grained models of human life; for post-positivist scholars, big data makes it possible to search and connect across plenty of related works rather than focusing only on artworks and literatures like novels and photographs. Although for many, the digital humanities is considered as weak and surface analysis instead of profound and penetrating explanation, big data indeed enhances the availability of data for analysis and allows new techniques and approaches to be employed; however, big data will not entirely replace traditional small data studies in this area. Data science could have a huge contribution towards revealing the patterns; however, it is one thing to identify patterns; it is another to explain them. This requires social theory and deep contextual knowledge based on the characteristics that the social and economic system is complex and adapting. Everything in the social and economic system is changing so that the pattern is not the end-point but rather a starting point requiring other data sets for additional analysis. 


