## Perspective Questions for today: 

Joshua Blumenstock states that a humbler data science could transform international development while also limiting the number of alleged silver bullets that have missed their mark in recent years. Describe the promises, pitfalls, and ways forward Blumenstock uses as the foundation for his thesis.

Additionally, consider the following statements from three of your classmates regarding this article. 

"Good intent is not enough in data science when dealing with the problems which determine people's experiences" Anna Raymond

"Transparency is the underlying issue to many of these problems, so an increase in this on both ends(data based issues & human based issues) could lead to better results." Nira Nair

"In lieu of such drastic potential for promoting applications yet demoralizing hindrances, the balancing act can become difficult." Kayla Seggelike

How do you respond to these ideas regarding "good intent", "transparency", and the difficult "balancing act" when considering the intersection of human development with data science?



## Here are my responses about the questions: 


From the reading, a humbler data science that could improve human development is described thoroughly. It is undeniable that data science is useful in many ways: match the data collected with human living conditions, leading to a corresponding action from the government to distribute humanitarian aid. With the help of data science, human development could reach a better place including reduced poverty and improved public health. However, the drawbacks discovered mean that the data science system requires self-improvement. From my perspective, the humbler data science means to have more respect to people, to be more practical to real-world conditions so as to validly use data science as an assistant to improve people’s living status, instead of just a flawed dominance machine leading to the conclusions.

First, having more respect to people means to let people know exactly about the fact that their personal information is collected to be a part of big data to further study. People have the rights to know about the scenarios that their private information would be used into. In addition, since data science is used in places all over the world, moral responsibility should be held all the time. This builds a similar situation to private business making profit in other countries as we discussed in class：although the business is not inside its native country, it shouldn’t be used to hurt the citizens of other countries as a side effect of earning profit; the use of data science is also the same.

Second, being more practical to real-world conditions means to be more accurate. The article mentioned the pitfalls that data science faces nowadays. Because of the fact that the power to derive value from the data is gathered in the hands of those with power and wealth, which is just a small number of rich people, bolstering those with power rather than those who are truly vulnerable and really need help is a major problem. Also, one of the most important factors to become more accurate is to understand both the social and cultural environment of the data collected from. From spatial scale, patterns detected in one place may not be generalized to other places; from temporal scale, the data gathered from one specific time couldn’t remain accurate overtime. Moreover, due to the fact that those who lack representation of the entire human population are the most disadvantaged people who need help the most, they will be marginalized and excluded because of the factors including literacy requirement and application of technological products. In order to elevate the accuracy that data science provides, new data should be validated by the use of old data instead of simply replacing the old ones; new tools should be compared with existing methods from different perspectives. While studying the data and putting it into practical use, local context should be put into account to generate corresponding solutions suitable for the specific place and time. Meanwhile, data scientists should be linked with social-change organizations so as to obtain more direct and detailed information about the problem we face at present.

I believe that “good intent” in the first statement means that the initial willingness to use data science in human development application is good since it indeed wants to be used as the tool to help improve living conditions into a better level. However, the drawbacks revealed during the use of data science, which were mentioned above, may fail the realization of the goals for now, and even worse, may hurt certain community’s rights and add inconvenience: for instance, the digital-credit value collected from loan borrowers would intervene their rights to take public transportations by some regulations, even if the result of the digital-credit only come from the fact that low educated people couldn’t understand the clause. Therefore, this kind of employment of data science would mostly hurt the underprivileged. “Transparency” mentioned in the second statement has the direct relationship with the privacy issue I described in the first place. All the data collected as the use for further application should be clarified to the resources of the data. Without the clear consent from the people concerned, obtaining their personal information would be immoral. Furthermore, my response to the third statement is that the balance between emphasizing the hindrances data science have for now and at the same time stating the advantages of the use of data science is essential. Within the revelation of the potential that data science could bring, it not only lets the public realize the importance and benefits of data science, but also encourages the data scientists to believe in the value of what they did. Meanwhile, within the emphasis about the challenges, data scientists would need to work harder on solving the problems. However, the extent of showing the good parts and bad parts must be considered to reach a balance. Otherwise, the situation would be either overoptimistic about the prospect and drown inside the illusion of greatness, or overpessimistic and having no motivation for further development. I always believe that the only way to succeed or reach a satisfying result for anything is to frequently examine and self-question so that we could find the flaws in the current situation. Self-improvement is then obtained from working out the deficiencies discovered from time to time. Therefore, despite the pitfalls emerged during the application of data science, with the retrospection about the parts requiring improvement and then aim to solve the problems discovered, I think data science would develop in a better way in the near future once we overcome the current challenges we face.
