## Question #1.  How does Owen Barder define development? How does he extend Amartya Sen's definition to include the idea of complexity?
 
Owen Barder defines development as a property of the economic and social system itself. From Amartya Sen’s definition that development should be judged not only on the basis of increases in average incomes, but also on whether it creates opportunities which enlarge people’s choices, capabilities, and freedoms (character of economic, social, political system) in the gradual process of firms becoming more productive and household rising, Owen Barder extends that judging development by its effects on people does not simply mean that development is the sum of improvements in the well-being of people or the output of firms; instead it involves uncountable factors influencing the results, showing the complexity of the system. 
 
 
 
## Question #2. Barder compared the economic growth of South Korea and Ghana between 1960 and 2010.  Why did he make this comparison?  What did this comparison demonstrate when used as the basis to validate economic models?
 
The comparison of the economic growth of South Korea and Ghana between 1960 and 2010 first shows that people’s incomes in these two countries had roughly the same income per person in the 1960s, with South Korea having lower income per person than Ghana for most of the 1960s, but in the late 1970s, incomes began to take off in South Korea while Ghana stayed roughly the same until very recently. The average income per person should not be the only factor considered in the measurement of well-being; the multi-dimensional feature of poverty and development indicates that plenty of more various factors should be taken into consideration. When used as the basis to validate economic models, the comparison demonstrates that it is the distribution but not the average income we are concerned about. The distribution shown in the comparison reveals the fact that difference in economic growth has resulted in different living conditions in different countries. Barder made the comparison to draw the important question that why economic growth which leads to a complete transformation in people’s lives has taken place in South Korea but not in Africa. 
 
 
 
## Question #3.  What was the toaster project? What did Thomas Thwaites attempt to do? Was he successful? What is the significance of this example in the context of complexity?
 
The toaster project is the decision from a British design student called Tomas Thwaites to make an electric toaster entirely from scratch by finding the raw materials and turning them into parts. 
It took Thomas Thwaites nine months to make this toaster with a huge cost off all the materials, fashioning them into parts, and assembling them together. However, because he couldn’t get hold of any rubber, the copper wires were not insulated, leading to the result that the toaster worked for five seconds and then burst into flames. Thomas Thwaites called this “a partial success.” When he brought the cheapest, simplest toaster in the store as a model to work from, he found out that even the simplest toaster is actually quite complicated. Building something as cheap and common as a 5-euro toaster requires a large array of technologies and parts. 
The idea of building toasters from scratch is extended to making a business of making toaster: the economy has to be sufficiently sophisticated and rich that enables to supply all the different materials and parts, and other requirements including electricity, workforce and labor, transportation, a legal system to enforce contracts, and a functioning financial system to provide capital. This indicates that development is not an increase in output by an individual firm, but is the emergence of a complicated system of economic, financial, legal, social, and political institutions: they all work together to provide the services that enable citizens to have a better living condition. 
 
 
 
## Question #4.  What was the Harrod Domar growth model? What are the two fundamental variables in this model? Who was Walter Rostow and what was the impact of his work on development?
 
The Harrod Domar growth model was a simple conventional economic model, claiming that if a firm could increase the amount of capital it uses and the amount of labor it uses, it could increase its output. Therefore, either more capital or more labor is needed to increase the output of the economy, the whole that is assumed to be the sum of the firm within it. The two fundamental variables in this model are the amount of capital and the amount of labor it uses. 
Walter Rostow was an economist who published The Stages of Economic Growth which claimed that development is a virtuous circle: when investment rises, that means that the capital stock rises, so the output rises, leading to higher incomes, more savings, and more investment as a result, starting the cycle all over again. According to his calculations for poor countries, if they could increase investment by five or ten percent of national income, the increase could trigger the virtuous circle and enter the development of “self-sustained growth.” His work on development was hugely influential: once knowing the additional investment needed to enter into the cycle from calculation, the countries could then use foreign aid to finance big infrastructure projects like dams and roads so as to fill the gap between domestic savings and the level of investment they need. 
 
 
 
## Question #5. What was the Robert Solow model?  How did it address the limitations of the Harrod-Domar model? Was this model successful at predicting economic growth?
 
The Robert Solow model, also known as the neoclassical growth model, was a model that introduced a third component “technical change” on top of labor and capital. This is a magical ingredient that increases the output of each with the combination of labor and capital; there is no specific explanation about where this component comes from. It fits the data much better than the old Harrod-Domar model. The limitation of the Harrod-Domar model is that it bears no resemblance to reality: it cannot construct an explanation of why South Korea grew so fast and Ghana did not by simply looking at capital and labor, so the participation of the third variable technical change enables the model to fit better. 
However, this model wasn’t successful at predicting economic growth; in fact, it wasn’t a model at all, but just a form of counting which breaks growth down into increase in labor, increase in capital, and then some other unexplained component that equals technical change. Solow’s model indicates that the divergence between rich countries and poor countries is entirely explained by “technical change:” counties of East Asia have had positive growth in technology, while countries in Sub-Saharan Africa have had negative growth in technology. However, it’s not likely that technology or knowledge is the basis of the difference because knowledge is cheaply reproduced and there should be an expectation for knowledge to spread. If technical change is the main reason for the difference, there should be a sharp diminishing in Africa over the past thirty years, but there hasn’t, indicating that the technology component is not really possible to be the main explanation for economic divergence. 
 
 
 
## Question #6. What was the Ajaokuta Steel works? How did it illustrate the transition from a focus on policies to institutions?  How did Acemoglu & Robinson book Why Nations Fail address governance and politics?  How is their argument a response to the previously failed idea regarding engineering prosperity by providing the correct economic advice? 
 
The Ajaokuta Steel Works in Nigeria is one of the largest ever investments in steel productions anywhere in the world. By the late seventies, the models of economic growth had already shown signs of ineffectiveness. Economists argued that their model correctly predicted the potential of each firm in theoretical ideal condition; it is the bad government policies that interfere with the proper functioning of markets so as to be different from the prediction. Therefore, a series of policy reforms are proposed known as the Washington Consensus, but the efforts to free up markets did not lead to convergence of poor countries in the industrialized world in the way that they were supposed to be. Once the Washington Consensus was not working, the development business decided that the problem was not policies but institutions. According to economic models, the Ajaokuta Steel Works has both labor and capital, so that it should have output and growth, but has so far produced no steel at all. However, after taking various forms including huge aid spending on technical cooperation, institutional strengthening, and various kinds of capacity building, the effect was not shown as expected. The possible explanation is that we have not worked out which institutions are most important for low-income countries so that we cannot provide the best reformation to change the current situation. 
Acemoglu & Robinson's book Why Nations Fail gives a compelling explanation of why the governance agenda has not lived up to its expectations. The reason that the previously failed idea regarding development cooperation by providing the right economic advice is incorrect is that poor countries do not have weak institutions because they do not know any better, but because it suits the powerful elites to run things this way. Above all, a country’s institutions are not an externally‐provided factor of production like labor or capital but an internally generated result of the country’s politics. There are still some missing ingredients that would make things right. 
 
 
 
## Question #7.  According to Barder, how successful have economic models been at describing and predicting growth over the past 50 years?
 
According to Barder, the last fifty years has been the most successful period in history in reducing poverty, increasing incomes, getting children into school, improving life expectancy, reducing hunger and malnutrition, and increasing access to clean water for both countries that have achieved the extraordinary economic development and even for those that have not achieved such a great accomplishment, but traditional economic models have a very hard time explaining why some countries experience had rapid economic growth after long-term relatively little economic change, while other countries do not. Economists have looked for the missing factors that are necessary for economic growth including capital, technology, policies, but all of them are endogenous characteristics of the system itself rather than external factors from the outside; none of them could explain thoroughly and reasonably. 
 
 
 
## Question #8. What was the significance of Schumpeter's idea of creative destruction? How does it relate to firms and institutions? What is co-evolution and why is it significant?
 
According to Schumpeter, the "gale of creative destruction" describes the "process of industrial mutation that continuously revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one." The example of Nokia which started as a manufacturer of rubber generally evolved into the telecommunication business and developed successfully shows the firm (or industry) adaptation. However, Nokia has not really made the transition from phones to smartphones, so it has been overtaken by larger manufacturers of mobile phones in the world. From the creative destruction process, old firms which are no longer suitable for contemporary society go bust, and are replaced by new firms which are better adapted to today’s environment. Institution adaptations are the same cases as firm adaptations. Within continuous replication, changes and improvement are built, evolving to the iteration in institutions. 
In a complex economy and society, a large number of adaptive processes goes on all the time. Not only do people adapt, products, firms, technologies, institutions also adapt and evolve. They all interact with each other during the time they evolve: co-evolve means that not only firms interact with firms, industries interact with industries, but also firms interact with industries, and different parts and lines of the society interact with each other to evolve as a whole. There is this constant process of adaptation changes in physical technologies, people’s behavior, business plans and firms, social institutions, the environment in which we live – all changing in response to each other.



## Question #9. What is a complex adaptive system? What are some of its important features?
 
Viewing the economy and society as being composed of a rich set of interactions between a very large number of adaptive agents, all of which are coevolving, scientists believe that these are the classic circumstances which create so-called complex adaptive systems. Biological organisms, ecosystems, rivers, the human brain, flocks of birds, the climate and weather are all examples of complex adaptive systems. 
There are five important features of complex adaptive systems. First, they are difficult or impossible to predict in detail. Second, scientists can make broad predictions about the system as a whole. Third, complex adaptive systems have emergent properties which are the patterns with the system which are not specifically linked to any individual agent within it. Fourth, complex adaptive systems tend towards greater complexity, which are quite the opposite of most economic models, tending to simplicity and equilibrium. Fifth, complex adaptive systems do not tend towards an equilibrium. Since each agent in the systems of the economy is evolving in the interaction with each other, the adaptation and evolution means that the system is always moving. 
 
 
 
## Question #10. Who was Haile Sellasie? What is the significance of Kapuscinski's book The Emperor? How did Ethiopia exemplify the suppression of emergent systemic change? Do you agree with this analysis?
 
Haile Selassie was the last Emperor of the great feudal dynasty of Ethiopia which ruled
until it was overthrown in 1974. Kapuscinski's book The Emperor combined historical accounts and fictional narrative to show us the dark days: all decisions came from the Emperor, all questions came from the top down; in the feudal kingdom of Ethiopia, it was dangerous to tell the Emperor about poverty and starvation in the countryside. Kapuscinski gave us a compelling account of the internal logic of Ethiopia, Iran, and Angola’s regimes: the rulers extracted economic value from their population and suppressed any efforts to move towards more inclusive political and social institutions that might threaten their power and position. 
I agree with this analysis: rich and powerful elites who benefited from the country’s economic structure suppressed the co-evolution of truly beneficial economic and social institutions. Because of their interference, which only considers their own interest and cares nothing about social and economic development, the mechanisms of adaptation and co-evolution are stifled in this way. Therefore, no emergence of development that consists of systemic change and social complexity would take place. 
 
 
 
## Question #11.  Why does Barder recommend resisting engineering as a policy implication?  What did he mean by iso-morphic mimicry?
 
The first reason to resist engineering as a policy implication is that at the level of specific improvement, evolutionary processes often outperform design. Usually, the problem is technically difficult to solve, and also, with the adaptation and evolution that each product, industry, and institution is going through, non-linear dynamics makes it impossible to predict; therefore, it is almost impossible to engineer solutions in a complex adaptive system. Instead of trying to replace the evolutionary process, we should try to iterate on the basis of the former process. 
“Iso-morphic mimicry” is another idea taken from evolutionary theory: animals sometimes evolve the appearance of being more dangerous than they really are. It would always be better if they can avoid being eaten by predators simply by looking poisonous rather than actually being poisonous since this requires additional energy. Development is a similar situation here: instead of creating an organization which can actually enforce the law, it would be easier and more inefficient to create an organization that looks like a police force with all the uniforms, buildings, weapons inside. These are exactly what the donors create: a powerful new evolutionary pressure to generate institutions which can adopt the camouflage of capable organizations instead of functional organization, even though they have nothing to be associated with promoting the performance. The organizations have all the characteristics of a well-functioning institution but do not change with or connect to its environment. 




## Question #12.  What did Barder mean by "resist fatalism"? Who was Norman Borlaug and what is the green revolution?
 
“Resist fatalism” means that although biological evolution has been a largely mechanical process of sexual reproduction and random mutation with the direction determined by survival of the fittest, we don’t have to accept whatever outcome the process of evolution gives us; in fact, we can accelerate and shape evolution. 
Norman Borlaug was the man who set up the Green Revolution by intervening in the evolutionary process to develop high-yield, disease resistant wheat varieties; he increased innovation using crossbreeding. The green revolution has saved a lot of people around the world from starvation. The evolutionary process of both wheat and bicycle demonstrates that we shouldn’t accept fate; instead we should use our intelligence and smartness to build opportunities for revolution. 
 
 
 
## Question #13.  Barder also recommended to promote innovation, embrace creative destruction and shape development.  What did he mean by these recommendations?
 
The recommendation to promote innovation from people on the right encourages entrepreneurs with protection of rights like property rights and ownership of assets to keep government bureaucracy out of the system. From people on the left, promoting innovation means more equal societies that are less susceptible to capture, leading the progress of firms and industries. 
The recommendation to embrace creative destruction from people on the right emphasize the need for open and competitive markets that reward success and punish failure. From people on the left, any concentration of wealth and power which may be an obstacle to change should be prevented. 
The recommendation to shape development from people on the right tends to focus on the need for innovation and accelerate evolution instead of the need of shaping the direction, while people on the left tend to focus on the need to determine the destination and direction instead of creativity and dynamics of the evolutionary process. 
 
 
 
## Question #14. Who was Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen and what was his insight about economic systems and evolution?
 
Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen was a Romanian mathematician, statistician, and economist. His insight about economic systems and evolution argued that economic scarcity is rooted in physical reality and all natural resources are irreversibly degraded when put to use in economic activity. He believed that evolutionary change and creative destruction are inherent to capitalism. The breakthrough of bringing natural resource flows into economic modelling and analysis allows him to educate, influence, and inspire a lot of people afterwards.


