From the speech of Hans Rosling, my main take-aways can be concluded in four: the stereotype towards developing countries should be eliminated because the real-world situation has already changed; specialization and contextualization corresponded to regional characteristics should be considered; link design to data in order to let the data face public would be a better way to use databases; and data visualization is an incredible tool. 
 
First, the stereotype about the third world is no longer the reality. The segregation between the “we” and the “them” that “we” have long life and small families while “they” have short life and large families is still firmly rooted. By comparing Asia in 1962 and Asia now with the variables of fertility rate (birth per woman) and life expectancy at birth, Asia has built incredible social change before we could see the economic changes. Social changes including huge improvement in health care and education has been the main effort that Asian developing countries made.
 
Second, information and data collected must be highly contextualized and detailed on regional level. When Rosling picked the Sub-Saharan African region alone, the plot revealed huge differences between countries in Africa, showing huge variation in economic and social development in this particular area, leading to my further interest in the reasons behind the variations in Sub-Saharan Africa. Therefore, it would be dangerous to use the average data since there are so many differences between all these countries even in a particular region. Cultural, political, and social characteristics of different regions should be considered inside interpretation of the data in order to reduce biases. 
 
Third, with the analogy to plants obtaining nutrition from the Sun, Rosling conveyed the idea about the necessity to let the public gain full access to databases vividly. By depicting the scenario about the Sun to be the public, design tools aboveground, databases underground, and the linkage in between, Rosling helped us understand the usefulness to combine design tools and databases together. 
 
Finally, the tool of data visualization is revealed to be important and useful inside the presentation. Visualization could show trends, clusters, situations with different dimensions and various indicators, and compare the results of different factors more clearly and comprehensively. For instance, when Rosling selected China individually, the plot about the relationship of child survival rates and GDP per capita clearly showed the trending performance of China within years: the straight upward movement of child survival rates shows that Mao brought health to China first, and the horizontal movement of GDP indicates that then Xiaoping Deng brought wealth to China, followed up by the inclining slope of both the development on social arrangements like health care and education, and the economy. When comparing the differences among countries, data visualization could reveal the general picture. Also, the mountain-like GDP per capita chart with the comparison between the world income situation in 1970, 2000 and 2015 visualizes the changes of the world especially the development of Asia through about 45 years. 
